---
title: 'Covid, motherhood and learning to code'
date: '2021-01-11'
---

I think the world will agree that 2020 was a year like no other. Personally, I felt that the word *“unprecedented”* has lost all contextual meaning. 

In February of 2020, I decided that I was going to be brave and quit my teaching job, a career I have done for exactly 10 years. Go back to my home country South Africa, renew passport and close up what I still had open from when I immigrated and naturally reconnect with friends and family. I had only moved to the USA in 2019. It had been emotional for me to start over in a new country. I was so home sick and wanted a change. The plan was I would come back to the USA with a fresh perspective and renewed energy to start a 12 week UX/UI Bootcamp with GA. I have a background in visual art and design. I was excited to merge that knowldge with tech. Not two weeks after I had signed off on my resignation, purchased plane tickets for myself and daughter when the world went into the now infamous **LOCKDOWN**. Having grown up in an aviation family, the notion of being able to get into an aeroplane and travel was something I have always taken for granted. I remember calling family and friends and feeling totally dumfounded. Then the fun really started. *What on earth was I going to do?* I had left a very stable job and now there was a worldwide pandemic- *great timing as always Leanne!*


Never in my life had I felt so overwhelmed and scared. I knew that this wasn’t going to *“go away”* by the Spring as certain government officials tried to persuade us. I called up GA and explained that I was going to have to push back my start date for UX/UI to Fall as there was no way I would be able to study full time and be the primary caregiver. Teaching online for the few months I had left at my school taught me that! Then came the most amazing advice from the Senior Admissions Producer, Nicole Taylor. She suggested that I do some of the free workshops that GA was currently offering as a way to keep my spirits up. I signed on for an introduction to HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Prior to this workshop, the most code related work I had done was with Divvy for WordPress! 
After the two hour workshop, an idea popped into my head. *‘Shit, maybe I can become a developer?’* Now, my partner is a 20-year IT veteran who has been coding since the ’90s. So when I approached him with this very radical idea I was very surprised when he said, *“Yeah, that’s a great idea. Anyone can learn to code, you will be good at that!”* So, back on the phone with the awesome Nicole and I changed my course to **Software Engineering Immersive**. Best of all, it was 6 months part-time as it was now Spring and Covid-19 wasn't going anywhere! So I started the precourse work and reality of what I was doing slapped me in the face- *“What the sodding hell are arrays, loops and arrow functions???”* I felt like I was reading some strange language! **Spoiler... I was!** As I worked my way through the joy of making a *Rock, Paper Scissors* consol game I started to question my ability to be able to do this. Then came the first day of class and the tsunami wave of information really started. As I write this blog, I am looking back at notes I wrote from Unit One which was all focused around HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Little tidbits from our lectures to, *'Focus on your journey! You will never have a perfect understanding. What’s important is that you are constantly seeking improvement and growth'*. Well, I was growing that’s for sure! The first few weeks were incredibly hard and I would be lying that if I didn’t have my partner to help me go over terminology and basic functions I wouldn’t have made it. He did, however, tell me I was *code illiterate* at one stage! My reply, *“**NO SHIT, I don’t know what the actual fuck I am doing!**”* 

Now I am not going to say that it all just magically clicked (or should I say onClicked- sorry bad joke). The 6 months of Bootcamp was intense. It dominated my life. I started to dream of code. Even had a nightmare involving React and doing a **git reset --hard** only to lose my entire backend API- *this actually did happen*, keep backend and front in separate git repos, lesson learnt! I have ugly cried over Ruby on Rails and trying to figure out how to query a URL at 2 am. I have said some very choice words to Heroku for failing to build and deploy. CORS, you are a cheeky little bitch! As for Big O notation… I am still tyring to work you out.   

Trying to find a balance of being a mom and studying has been challenging. Thank you private preschool for opening up again! Preschool teachers, you lot are GOAT! But here I am. I did it! I went from not even knowing how to **hello world** to full CRUD. I opened up the chrome dev tools while on a zoom call with a friend the other day and laughed when they went, *“oh is that the backend of a website?”* 

Now the real work begins. I need to find a job. Been lucky enough to do some intern work to help get my feet wet, but the job search starts in earnest now. While it feels like I have just run a marathon, the truth is that was all just pretraining. Now the race is real and I am ready. I am excited to keep learning. To show my daughter that Women in Tech is not just some buzz word. I am going to focus on my journey and not compare myself to anyone else, only to who I was yesterday!     
